[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Now I'm gonna present
to you just real quickly again because I
don't want to belabor lots of HTML5.
This is not an HTML5 workshop, but
I want to present to you several APIs
that exist in HTML5, but I'm gonna do so
in a different way than maybe you're used
to seeing because I'm not actually
gonna show you the native APIs.
What I'm going to show you is code
that's using what I call API facades.
Now I have an entire talk on this
particular topic if this is at all
Interesting to you.
I'll give you like the two minute blurb on
what a facade is and why it's important.
A facade is an extremely thin layer
of obstruction around a native API.
It is not a poly fill.
It does not put functionality into
an environment where that functionality
does not already exist.
It does not add new functionality on top
of the existing APIs for the most part.
It is not terribly concerned with
lots of bug fixes and things.
The main goal of a facade, the main
goal of this thin wrapper API is for
you to have thin layer of
insulation between the code that
you write across your
production application.
And the actual API is that
sometimes develop bugs in them.
Sometimes they change sometimes they
move from not being vendor prefixed
to being vendor prefixed or
the other way around.
Sometimes quirks occur.
And if you have production code that is
using the direct native API
it's all over the place.
Say, for instance, the canvas API or
the local storage API.
If you're using those APIs directly and
one of the environments
that you're supporting your
production app in changes something
about it, like a bug is introduced.
I don't remember the exact details but
I remember a few months ago there was some
change that [COUGH]
happened with Safari and
their number of concurrent
Ajax requests or something.
And all of a sudden, production apps
just have to start dealing with
a change to the environment that
they used to be able to run in.
So when those things occur,
if you've been using the native APIs
directly across your whole code base.
You've got a whole bunch
of places to go and fix it.
But if you've been using a facade, the
facade is a place, it's sort of a pressure
release valve or it's an insulation layer
that allows you to fix that problem.
Or fix that bug or whatever that quirk
in one location rather than having to
invalidate the code
across your entire app.
So facades are an incredibly important
thing to be using if you're using these
native APIs directly I encourage
you to rethink that choice.
Use some sort of facade,
use some sort of frameworks are just
a more complex version of a facade.
Frameworks add all kinds of extra stuff
into it they add in poly fills and
if you're using a framework around
canvas like if you're using D3 or
whatever great no problem.
I'm not gonna complain about
your use of a framework but
if you're using the canvas
API directly anywhere.
You should either be using a facade or
a framework rather than the direct API.
So that's my little two minute spiel
on that and what I'm going to show you
is several of these API using
a facade APIs that I have built.
There's a project that
I built called H5 and
the goal of that was sort of
a community driven thing.
It really hasn't gotten as much
attention as I had hoped it would but
the goal was for us as a community to
collectively build facade APIs for
all of the built in HTML5 APIs
that are available.
Everything from local storage,
to webRTC, to websockets all everything.
I wanted us to build facades for that so
that we could responsibly
use these features now,
but insulate ourselves in case there are
problems or changes or bugs down the road.
And we've probably gotten five or
six of those facades written so
I'm gonna show you some of those today.
But there's, if you go and check out,
it's the project is H with the number 5.
h5ive is the project name and if you go
and check out h5ive on the GitHub repo.
You'll see there's 20 or
30 other APIs already
identified that we need to write
that haven't been written yet.
So, if you'd like to help I would love
that and I've got a contribution guide
there on how to help participate in that,
t's pretty easy stuff.
But I'm [COUGH] I'm gonna show
you some of the facades for
the APIs that I already
use that I've built.